Pretoria - Higher Education, Science and Technology Minister Dr Blade Nzimande has assured prospective students the post-schooling sector was ready to usher them into the next phase of their studying ambitions. Speaking on the eve of the release of the national matric results yesterday, Nzimande assured current and prospective students the announcement and release of the results would not affect the state of readiness for the cohort planning to venture into the post-schooling education and training sector in the 2023 academic year. Concerns were raised by education stakeholders, prior to a briefing by Umalusi CEO Dr Mafu Rakometsi on Monday, that although the quality assurance would not need an extension for the release of the results, the reason the 2022 matric results would be late was the Covid-19 pandemic. “The schools started late in 2022 as a result of the knock-on effects of the disruptions of the 2020 and 2021 academic years. Schools had to do a lot of catching up and the Class of 2022 suffered the full impact of the pandemic,” Rakometsi said. EFF spokesperson Sinawo Thambo said the delay in the release of the results would have a ripple effect on the transition of learners to the post-secondary education phase. More importantly, Thambo said, they were concerned that this would affect the ability of families to plan for their children. Even with the slight delay, Nzimande said university registration for the new academic year had commenced on January 16 and was expected to close on February 20. He added several universities would allow late registrations. He advised students to continue liaising with universities on the progress of their admissions. In the same manner, most Technical, Vocational and Training (TVET) colleges had also already begun their teaching and learning, including practicals, following their successful online registration process. However, Nzimande stressed some colleges were still accepting students in areas where the enrolment targets had not been met. Community colleges had opened on Wednesday for inland provinces and a week later for coastal provinces. Nzimande said in addition to the efforts made by the individual institutions to assist students, his department, as of January 24 to March 31, would activate the services of the Central Application Cleaning House to assist individuals to access university, college and skills development opportunities. Pretoria News