Pretoria - Load shedding put a damper on the festive spirit across communities, as they tried to enjoy their holidays after months of blackouts and inconvenience. People in and around Pretoria spoke to Pretoria News of their hope for a break during the holidays, but, they said, they were disappointed by continued blackouts, spoiling both their fun and food. Many explained that they had bought food in bulk, with the hope of having plenty to eat, “but we did not, as worrying about food poisoning and eating hot deserts became a norm”, a Pretoria north resident said. Tech founder Phiwa Nkambule took to social media to confront Eskom and asked if they could just give the country one full week of load shedding and fix their generators properly because “patching with sellotape is not working”. Despite saying earlier that load shedding was not expected on New Year’s, Eskom announced that it was experiencing problems and implemented load shedding. Dimakatso Paya said: “I really wish we could leave this load shedding in 2022 because our economy needs to see some growth and thrive if we are to address this rising younth unemployment, poverty and subsequent crime.” Daniel Khuzwayo said load shedding was on top of the list of things he wished to leave in 2022, along with toxic relationships and jealous friends and colleagues. Irwin Chauke said: “Can we not have more of this load shedding and these corruption scandals that require special investigations, that waste the little money our government has but do not lead to any serious arrests? We do the same things and complain about the same things in this country. This load shedding is not new. I am tired of it now.” Tebogo Mosehla said: “Load shedding is a painful reminder that we do not know how to solve problems as a country. Our departments are also struggling to clear infrastructure and housing backlogs that are older than load shedding. This shows we have a serious problem of capacity. We hire incompetent people and under-fund them too. We are in trouble.” Mathapelo Kete said: “Just imagine a new year without blackouts, where businesses are thriving and creating jobs. I am so sick and tired of this load shedding. Imagine the pain of crossing over into a new year in the dark. After the fireworks you realise that you are going back to the darkness.” Pretoria News