Pretoria - From Covid-19 to load shedding, the matric class of 2022 saw it all. The group also had to transition to online classes during the pandemic. This, however, did not stand in the way of them working hard and obtaining good marks. They managed to achieve a matric pass rate of 80.1%, with an improvement of 3.7% compared to last year’s 76.4%. At Pretoria High School for Girls and Vukani Mawethu Secondary School in Mamelodi, the pupils were there in large numbers to collect their results. They said they couldn’t have done it if they had not been disciplined and hard-working. Pretoria High School for Girls head girl Nashe Nyamkure obtained six distinctions and was delighted and honoured to have represented her school well. She said in order for her to pass well, she did active recall, and she made summaries with mind maps and used a lot of previous question papers. She said she was going to study medicine this year and was very excited about the opportunity. “I was consistent with my school work and was studying every day. I didn’t wait for the exam dates to be close before I would start studying. I think that is what made me achieve the marks that I got. “My dad, my friends, and my teachers kept me going and they all played a huge role in ensuring that I stay focused. “The advice I would like to give to the class of 2023 is that focus is very important if you want to pass well and remember that there’s a time to work and there’s a time to play. “Matric is a very short year and you need to make sure that you are working hard throughout the year. Only after the finals can you go out and have your fun, but during the year you must make sure that you focus and try not to fall behind,” she said. Nyamkure’s advice is also to ask for help for those who need it, get extra resources and make use of those available. Vukani Mawethu Secondary School principal Masindi Mbelengwa said they experienced a huge drop in mathematics and physical sciences marks because they would normally get 100%. But still, the class of 2022 did very well because they have obtained 91 bachelor passes, 43 diploma passes and 13 higher certificate passes. “Only 13 learners failed at our school but all learners did well. We have encountered a lot of hiccups last year, as well as two years ago due to Covid-19. But I am excited that they managed to pull through. Even while the school does not have enough resources and proper infrastructure, we have managed to instil knowledge in the learners,” said Mbelengwa. Thato Kgosiyagae obtained four distinctions and said he felt so good. His teachers were his greatest motivators because they stood by them and encouraged them to perform well. “Due to the load shedding challenges I managed to study in the afternoon from 3pm to 6pm and that has helped me achieve the results that I got,” he said. He advised the class of 2023 to study hard, to be patient and to join the education programme they offer in the area because he couldn’t have done it without its help. Thabo Matemane, who achieved a bachelor’s pass, said he was really excited that he had passed and with the hard work he put in last year he had been expecting these results and couldn’t wait to go to Wits this year to pursue a medical and surgery career because they have accepted him. “Working hard in matric is the best and avoiding unnecessary things that will make you lose focus from school is imperative. “When there was no electricity I would study at home with candles and that alone encouraged me to want to excel so that I will be able to get out of the township and build a good life for me and my family and I’m proud of myself for this,” he said. Thapelo Malantswane felt wonderful and grateful after receiving his results and he said he was honoured to hold a bachelor’s pass. “My teachers were the best and they were motivating us and being persistent with us and the maths and science programme I attended was really helpful to me and I got an opportunity to shine in the difficult subjects.” Pretoria News