Pretoria - ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa has issued a stern warning against party leaders who are involved in corrupt activities and crime. He also warned against racism following the Christmas Day altercation that saw two teenage boys being assaulted at Maselspoort Resort outside Bloemfontein, Free State, in what appears to be a racial incident. Ramaphosa was speaking at the governing party’s 111th anniversary in Bloemfontein yesterday where about 10 000 supporters were in attendance. “Corruption is an enemy of the people. It must be combated and defeated. This means our movement must take a tough stance against corruption within its ranks. Any ANC member implicated or involved in corrupt activity must be subjected to the ANC’s rules and the criminal justice system. There can be no exceptions. “To address corruption within its ranks, the 55th National Conference has reaffirmed the step-aside guidelines, strengthening of the Integrity Commission and the ANC disciplinary structures and processes. “The ANC calls for speedy implementation of the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry on State Capture. Those implicated by the commission in acts of corruption and fraud must be investigated and, where appropriate, prosecuted. This is in addition to the ANC’s own commitment to implement the commission’s recommendations relevant to the organisation.” Ramaphosa said the party should ensure that state capture never happen again while promising to establish an independent anti-corruption agency. Talking against racism Ramaphosa said: “The ANC condemns, in the strongest terms, the continued harassment of and discrimination against black people who regularly get attacked and victimised on the basis of their skin colour. “The ANC calls for law-enforcement agencies to investigate and prosecute perpetrators who must face the full might of the law. “The ANC further calls on its parliamentarians to champion the introduction of more effective laws and measures to combat racism which has no place in our constitutional democracy.” Ramaphosa was speaking in the presence of the two teenagers assaulted on Christmas Day. He called them on to the stage to introduce them as his special guests of the day. He also spoke out against the high crime rate in the country and vowed to zoom in on the matter. “The creation of conditions of peace and stability and guaranteeing safety and security to the people is one of the central pillars of our vision. “Having acknowledged the disturbing reality that there is a breakdown of basic security as a result of rising levels of lawlessness, criminality and violence, the ANC will take steps to strengthen law-enforcement agencies and citizen involvement in the urgent work of restoring peace and stability across the country. “We call on communities and citizens to co-operate and partner with the police and law-enforcement agencies to create safer and more secure communities through effective and well-resourced community policing forums and community patrollers. “Where CPFs are active, we have seen a marked reduction in crime as community members work with the police to protect their communities. “The ANC calls on and directs the government to take urgent steps to enhance the crime-fighting capacity of law-enforcement agencies by increasing the number of police personnel to match our country’s population increase. “Urgent steps must also be taken to rebuild the capacity of law-enforcement agencies and other institutions of the criminal justice system which were weakened by state capture and corruption.” Pretoria News