Pretoria - Visiting an airport as a primary school pupil and seeing an aircraft land and take off was all it took to convince 21-year-old Lethabo Malesa to dream of soaring the skies. The story of this young woman captured the hearts of South Africans and inspired many. Even EFF leader Julius Malema tweeted about her obtaining a commercial pilot licence in December. The country jumped to her praises, noting her humble beginnings in Seshego, Limpopo. She went on to accept financial support from the EFF pilot programme and used it to earn her place in the aviation industry. Malesa is so determined to make a name for herself in South Africa aviation that all she thinks about is soaring through the skies, exploring things on her own before she even starts “thinking and worrying about things like starting a family”. She describes herself as a grounded young woman, who was raised in a very calm and Christian family. “I lived with my mom. I give credit to both my parents for raising me. Even though I grew in mother’s hands, my dad was also involved and present in my life, emotionally, mentally, financially and academically,” she said. She had to grow up fast and be a great example as the oldest of five girls aged 20, 16, 13, 11 and 5. “I can’t say I come from an underprivileged background, because my parents could afford every basic need. I am grateful that I was able to cherish whatever they could put on the table and that I never went to bed on an empty stomach. “My mom was unemployed, but my dad was working. I don’t remember what he was doing.” Malesa says she always knew she was born to chase her goals and achieve big things. It helped that she was well disciplined and had this innate need and want for nothing but the best for herself. “I am an introvert, I like to say. I was always indoors. The only time I would go out was to school, tutor lessons or church. I was also picky when it came to friends. I would surround myself with people who know more, because I was eager to learn more from them. “To my parents I was a sweet girl,” she said laughing. “I never really gave them problems like most teenagers do. I was the best child they could have asked for.” Even in school, Malesa was a disciplined child with a promising future. She is certain news of her achievement wouldn’t surprise her educators in Peakanyako Primary and Bokamoso Senior Secondary School. She carried herself well until she completed her matric in 2019. “I was a smart, reserved, well-mannered and interactive learner. I always made sure I was in the top 10 group, getting awards, and I participated in activities. “I went to Superior Pilot Services at Grand Central Airport. I started in February 2020 and completed in December 2022. “I have always wanted to be a pilot from a young age. I would be inspired every time I saw a female captain in one of those old movies. “My love for aviation grew when I went to Polokwane International Airport on a school trip. When I saw those big birds, I knew that my dream was to one day soar the sky. “I also knew being the first female pilot in my community would break stereotypes and inspire many young black women,” she said proudly. Malesa said the journey overall was tough but she made sure to make it fun with the flights. She would fly her friends to interesting places, have lunch, do some activities and fly back home. She also flew her parents and some of her cousins to places. She endured some of the challenges that came with the training but today she looks on it as acquiring a lot of skills from those challenges. “The training forces you to get out of your comfort zone, but when it’s your passion, it becomes easy. “The journey was life-changing. Looking back from when I started until I finished my training, my heart is full of gratitude that I was able to grow that much. I am the lady I’ve always wanted to be! “My family were super proud. They could not stop calling and screaming. Some were even crying. I really made them proud. I was honestly relieved when I finished, I wasn’t proud,” she laughed. “The training was so hard that when I got to the finish line, all I said was ‘thank God I am done’.” Malesas said it was only sinking in now just how big this achievement was. She is proud of herself and can’t stop looking at herself in the mirror every day and smiling. “If I did not make it in the aviation industry I would be in medicine. I had a paper at the back of the door in my room in high school, and I had written ‘pilot’ as my first option and ‘medical doctor’ second option. “I could not be happier that today I am an aviator,” she added. Pretoria News