Pretoria - A group of Mabopane Block D land invaders who had their structures demolished by the City of Tshwane want to sue the metro for damages incurred in the demolition they deemed illegal. This comes after the structures they had built were demolished on Tuesday by City officials, who received praise from mayor Randall Williams. Among those who said they were disappointed was Miranda Matlou, who owned a property in the area.  Yesterday, she said she had not been in good health after her structure was demolished and the gate taken in the process. She had doubled the size of her yard by extending it from the back with the help of her daughter, who spent at least R100 000 to build the structure. She said the City of Tshwane and ward councillor failed to consult her and other people. Had they consulted her, they would heave known that the now defunct Bophuthatswana homeland under the leadership of Lucas Mangope had given some homeowners leeway to extend their yards. She said although she could not speak on behalf of other people who came and built homes and structures in the "unused area" near a mountain, she did not do anything wrong. "The eviction was not even legal or authorised by a court. They basically disrespected us and thought we do not know how the law works. I have opened a court case against the City and ward councillor. "We have appointed an attorney to represent us against the City in court and I will be filing for damages. This has resulted in unjustifiable financial losses and damages to my health. I even went to a doctor, and I have the medical letters to show how I was affected," said Matlou. Her plans to extend were mostly influenced by crime in the area. She said she has experienced 18 house robberies over the years. Having rental rooms behind her home kept the place busy and discouraged criminals, who have also stolen her furniture in the past. Themba Ngubane was found picking up bricks to rebuild his one-room house yesterday morning. He said he was not going anywhere, and that they were all prepared to build their homes and fight to have a place to live. "They are chasing us from unoccupied land that will never be used because it is just next to a mountain. We are also ending crime here. Over the years, two women were found killed in this place. Clearly, it is an area that benefits criminals if left unused," said Ngubane. Williams said the City's teams acted swiftly to prevent land invasion in the area. He received praise from members of the public who also mentioned other areas that should be demolished. "Please, do not allow anyone to sell you land unless it is through a lawful and legal process. If you erect structures on land unlawfully they will be demolished. “Land invasion is a serious problem. Often people invade land that cannot be developed or is not habitable. In the worst cases, some communities have invaded active floodplains or dry river beds which flood during heavy rainfall creating significant personal risk," said Williams. Pretoria News