Pretoria - A Limpopo community activist has single-handedly managed to get the Department of Home Affairs to do the right thing, after officials declared a 47-year-old mentally handicapped man dead, preventing him from accessing his disability grant for a year. The victim, Martin Nethule, from Sabie in Mpumalanga, last received his disability grant in December 2021. When his sister and only sibling, Thulisile Mona, enquired about the “frozen” South African Social Security Agency grant, she discovered that Home Affairs had issued a death certificate in her brother’s name. Mona said her brother was stabbed in the head in Boksburg, Gauteng, when he was 29 years old. This resulted in Nethule’s permanent disability, forcing him to rely on his family for care. Their parents died in 2016 and 2021, leaving Mona as the chief caregiver. “We have been living a difficult life since January 2022. When the grant stopped, we thought it was a small issue that could be resolved in a day, but to our shock, we discovered that Martin was ‘dead’, according to Home Affairs records,” Mona said. Nethule’s death had more twists. His ID was being used by another individual. “There was no one willing to take responsibility for this issue. We found out that Martin was not only certified dead, but his ID number had been hijacked by someone else. “This person had opened a bank account under the ID number and he earned the same monthly Sassa grant that was meant for my brother. It became clear that there was corruption involved.” The sister approached a newly launched community forum that intends to do for black people what AfriForum has been doing for the white community since 2006. “At the beginning of this month, we contacted Kopano Dibakwane, a well-known activist who used to live near Sabie. He immediately attended to our problem and started shaking the tree at Home Affairs and the bank. “As we speak, the problem has been solved, our brother is officially alive again and the bank has reopened his account. We are relieved but we will never recover the 12 months we spent suffering because of this obvious corruption,” Mona said. Dibakwane was happy to explain his involvement in the matter. “I have mixed feelings about the whole issue. First of all, there was no need for the family to be dragged from pillar to post to receive a grant that is legitimately theirs. Second, when you analyse the situation, it is clear that there could be other families going through the same challenges. “I am convinced that Home Affairs has to account for the error, or corruption, that took place. If our government leaders are serious about quality service delivery, they need to set an example with this case. Heads should roll.” Dibakwane said his activism work was given a boost when he created a community platform, Grassroots Activism Forum of South Africa, aimed at helping black communities reclaim their dignity. “Last year in December, I told myself that come hell or high water, in 2023 I am launching the organisation, not through expensive gala dinners but through measurable action that can bring hope to black people. “We have often criticised black people who join progressive organisations such as AfriForum when they are faced with corporate disregard. I felt it was time that I did something, even when I had no cent on me. “The word spread around and I found the Nethule case,” said Dibakwane, who is head of research and social analysis at the organisation. Dibakwane said that after investigating the Nethule case, he exposed it to the media through media statements and phone calls to journalists. “That little effort prompted Home Affairs to do the right thing. Following this success, the organisation has been in communication with a law firm that is willing to sue the department for the damage caused to Nethule’s family. This is only the beginning,” Dibakwane said. S Nkuna Law Chambers director advocate Sydney Nkuna confirmed that the firm would be sending a letter of demand to Home Affairs. “This is an extremely touching case. I can imagine what would have happened to them if the organisation had not intervened. “It certainly cannot end there; the government must be held accountable for subjecting the family to the emotional pain and financial strain suffered,” Nkuna said. Home Affairs spokesperson Siyabulela Qoza was not available by publication time for comment. His number rang unanswered since the weekend. Pretoria News