Tshwarelo Hunter Mogakane Pretoria - The Department of Basic Education has dismissed concerns that the release of the 2022 matric results has been delayed. The concerns were raised after Umalusi requested to extend the release to January 23, while the department had initially planned to release the results on January 19. Currently, the department plans to release the results on January 20. The EFF has lambasted the department for the move. “(We) condemn the unprecedented delay in the release of final examination matriculant results for the year 2022. “Inexplicably, the results of the matriculants are set to be released on January 20, a delay that has a ripple effect on the transition of learners to the post-secondary education,” said EFF spokesperson Sinawo Thambo. The EFF said the delay would affect families in terms of their ability to plan . “The delay has an added impact on already financially hamstrung families, who have to manage the high cost of living while also considering the costs of travel that relate to their children going to universities.” Thambo said that year after year, the department found ways to be incompetent when it related to matrics and the handling of the process in its entirety. “If it is not scandals such as the leaking of examination papers that results in cheating, or appalling results in schools which perennially underperform with no intervention, it is this blatant failure to synchronise systems to ensure that results of learners are released before the academic year begins in primary and high schools,” Thambo said. The EFF blamed the government for hiring older ministers to be in charge of younger people’s futures. “We as the EFF will propose legislative and policy amendments which will make it compulsory and non-negotiable for the Department of Basic Education to release senior certificate results within a reasonable period,” Thambo said. When asked for reasons for the delays, departmental spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga dismissed the EFF’s claims. “There are no delays. There is no statement,” said Mhlanga. Pretoria News