Pretoria - Most of the municipalities in the country do not have properly accredited officials in the fields of electrical, civil, mechanical and chemical engineering in their employ. This shocking detail was revealed by Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, in her written reply to questions in parliament from the FF Plus’s Michael Groenewald. Groenewald asked Dlamini Zuma to provide the FF Plus with details of the number of engineers in the different fields in each of the nine provinces that was supported by the Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent. The party also wanted details of whether any of the specified engineers were registered with recognised professional bodies, as well as the total number in each of the municipalities. Groenewald also wanted details of engineers working in the municipalities, but who weren’t registered with professional bodies. In her reply, Dlamini Zuma said there were only 168 properly accredited engineers appointed at municipalities countrywide, saying the number represented about 19% out of a total of 1 026 individuals appointed in engineering posts. “Some of the engineers are registered with the Engineering Council of South Africa as professionally registered. Some of the engineers are not registered as they are still gaining the requisite experience required for professional registration,” she said. Dlamini Zuma listed Gauteng among the provinces which had a shortage of these professional skills – especially the small municipalities of Lesedi, Midvaal, Merafong, Emfuleni, Rand West and Mogale City Local Municipality.  No details were given about the City of Joburg, Tshwane and Ekurhuleni. Dlamini Zuma confirmed that none of Gauteng’s six small municipalities had mechanical or chemical engineers in their workplaces. They also had have a shortage of electrical and civil engineers. Lesedi Municipality in Heidelberg has only two electrical engineers, but neither is registered with a professional body. The municipality also has one civil engineer who is also not professionally registered. Emfuleni Local Municipality in Vereeniging has one registered electrical engineer and eight not registered. The municipality also has vacancies for seven posts in its electrical engineering department. There are also two professionally registered civil engineers and a further 12 who aren’t registered. Midvaal Local Municipality in Meyerton has one electrical engineer and one vacant post. It also has two civil engineers and six not registered. Merafong Local Municipality in Carletonville has two electrical engineers, but they aren’t registered with a professional body. It also has one professional civil engineer and six others who are not registered. The municipality also has vacancies for eight posts. Rand West Local Municipality in Randfontein doesn’t have a single electrical engineer. It, however, has three civil engineers, but none of them are registered with professional bodies. The municipality has six vacancies to be filled. Mogale City Local Municipality in Krugersdorp has three registered electrical engineers and two who aren’t. It also has four civil engineers and eight not registered. Groenewald said what was evident from the minister’s response was that one of the main causes of the decay of critical infrastructure in ANC-controlled municipalities was that there were a mere 141 accredited civil engineers employed at municipalities. “These shocking figures also highlight the enormous outflow of critical expertise from municipalities,” Groenewald said. “It, furthermore, explains why billions in tax money is squandered on tenders for services which municipalities ought to provide themselves at a fraction of the cost ,” Groenewald said. Pretoria News