Pretoria - The South African Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu) has warned its members to brace themselves for the battle ahead as salary and wage negotiations are expected to start this year. The union national office-bearers (NOBs) called on Samwu members to be active participants and mandate the union for increases “in line with the forever increasing cost of living”. “Our members should be prepared for the battle ahead, especially given the austerity measures which have been adopted by the government,” the union leaders said in a media statement. The NOBs announced that they have themed 2023 “Year of the Member” on the back of the cries expressed by members regarding the type of service they received. “In the new year, we will ensure that members and their service come first. It is for this reason that we have themed 2023 the Year of the Member. We are going back to basics and will ensure that members come first in all that we do. “Education and capacitation of shop stewards and members will be a top priority for the union in 2023. We will be reaffirming our status and position as the majority union in both sectors through recruitment campaigns geared towards having quality and capable members and leaders who are able to defend workers in the workplace.” According to the union, the Year of the Member will see the NOBs consolidating the gains made in the South African Local Government Bargaining Council (SALGBC). “The three-year salary and wage collective agreement will be in its last leg of implantation in July 2023, wherein municipal workers will be receiving a salary and wage increase of CPI plus 1%. “Through our intervention, the SALGBC is currently undertaking a study on the employability of EPWP workers permanently and directly by municipalities. In reaffirming the union’s 2015 national congress resolution, all EPWP workers based in municipalities should be permanent municipal employees with full benefits.” In the media statement, the union also basked in the glory of the achievements it said it had clinched in 2022. For example, it said it was finally able to participate at the Cosatu national congress as an affiliate in good standing after a seven-year absence of meaningful contribution. Over 200 workers at Newcastle and Ugu municipalities in the KZN province were attracted back to the union as it implemented its 11th National Congress resolution on union bashing. Among other achievements, the union cited the intervention by the Gauteng provincial and regional leadership in making sure that workers at Emfuleni Local Municipality were paid salaries in December after the municipality’s bank account was attached by Eskom due to non-payment. “We have previously been faced with a situation like this at the Renosterberg Local Municipality in the Northern Cape province, whose bank account was also attached by Eskom. “We trust that the precedent that was set by the Northern Cape High Court which set aside the attachment of the municipality’s bank account will be used to prevent further disruptions of service delivery and the lives of municipal workers,” the union said. Pretoria News