Pretoria - Tshwane tourism businesses are on a path of recovery amid the lingering effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and persistent load shedding. This was the general feeling expressed by business people and buyers in the industry during the one-day Tshwane Tourism Association exhibition hosted at the CSIR yesterday. Taking place for the first time since the pandemic, the event attracted scores of tourism buyers, enthusiasts and academics who visited stalls to learn about what Tshwane had to offer. Exhibitors showcased a wide range of sectors including hotels and accommodations, nature reserves, beauty therapy and spas, tours, chauffeurs, airport shuttles and restaurants. Panellist and masters’ candidate at Unisa, Medalto Gotore, said 86% of the industry had returned to full operation since the pandemic, while sectors such as accommodation and car rentals ranged from 6% and 18%. “It is most likely that there are other factors that are affecting the recovery of the tourism industry. Apart from the tourism industry on its own working hard to attract tourists and the likes, we also have some macroeconomic fundamentals that come into play. Like right now the issue of load shedding may be affecting even the image of the country. “Also, there are other issues like security. What happens when there is load shedding and also other things, like what happens at the borders. But, I must say, there is a really high chance of the tourism industry recovering, not very soon but later, to where it was before Covid-19,” said Gotore. Exhibitors included internship rangers from the City of Tshwane, which represented its offerings such as Groenkloof, Wonderboom and Moreleta Kloof nature reserves. Others included Austin Roberts Birds Sanctuary, Luton Valley Bird Sanctuary, and Bishop Bird Nature Area. However, most of the exhibitors were actually from the private sector, representing rural, urban and township-located tourist attractions. This included Southern Sun’s host of hotels, Monte De Dios Equestrian Wedding and Conference Venue, Mangwanani African Spa, Bill Harrop's Original Balloon and Safaris and Sgegede Lodges and Tours. Regional operations manager of Mangwanani African Spa, Nitasha Roopnarain, said: “We are happy to be here exhibiting and showcasing our services to the people.  “Covid-19 really hit us hard and it was only at the end of last year that we returned to 100% staff capacity. It was really just a bad occurrence because our business is also about women empowerment. The women who work for us have been through a lot and some traumas. We offer them skills, independence and confidence.” Pretoria News