Pretoria - New mayor of Mkhondo Local Municipality, Ngelosi Ndlovu, has expressed concern about her safety following the bloodbath in the Mpumalanga area in recent weeks. Ngelosi was elected last week to take over from independent 32-year-old mayor Mthokozisi Simelane, who ousted ANC former mayor Vusi Motha in the Mkhondo council in the local government elections in 2021. The municipal council was dissolved last year after the ANC fired six of its councillors for voting with the opposition. This month, three ANC members were gunned down in Piet Retief, including Mkhondo councillor Sbonelo Ntshangase, who filmed a video stating that should he be killed, Motha should be blamed. The three murders followed the murder of Mkhondo PR councillor Muzi Manyathi last November. The murders have caused tensions in the Mkhondo area, putting the lives of councillors at risk. DA caucus leader in Mkhondo, Irene Brussow, said the municipality has produced an unsafe political climate. “The battle for power in this municipality is getting more untenable by the day. Too many families have lost their loved ones. Fear and anxiety are quickly spreading to other councillors now. Unfortunately, this will have a ripple effect on the communities.” Motha has since been arrested for unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. His fellow accused, Welllington Sangweni, was also arrested and charged with contravention of the Firearms Control Act and the contravention of the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority Act. A third suspect was arrested but released due to lack of evidence. Last week, three more suspects were arrested in connection with the Mkhondo January murders. The accused, Andile Mondli Gamede, 32, Blessing Nhlakanipho Ntombela, 30, and Blessing Bongani Dlamini, 38, appeared in the Piet Retief Magistrate’s Court yesterday. They were not asked to plead to three counts of murder, attempted murder and theft of a firearm. “The three were arrested in relation to the murder of ward councillor Sbonelo Ntshangase, 36, and his friends Sandile Khumalo and Sizwe Mbingo. The case has been postponed to February 14 for formal bail application. They have been remanded in custody,” said provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala. The provincial government has called for order to be restored at the municipality, which was followed by the election of a new mayor, Ndlovu and new council speaker, Zweli Ngwenya. ANC leaders in the province congratulated their former spokesperson, Ndlovu, for her election, but have not said a word about how the recent spate of murders will affect her tenure. Ndlovu told the Pretoria News the council was already working with police to assess the risk involved in councillors serving at the municipality. “The council has resolved that a risk assessment be conducted urgently to prioritise the safety of all councillors. From the face value of it, we are not safe,” she said. Pretoria News