Pretoria - Non-profit organisation Thusa ngwanageno (Help your brethren) was again out and about , assisting pupils to cover books in preparation for the start of school today. The organisation was at RS Maluleke Primary School, north of Pretoria, covering books and handing them to parents who were collecting stationery. Thusa ngwanageno, an initiative of the Youth Empowerment Organisation that seeks to help disadvantaged youth in academic-related matters, has been on a school visiting campaign in deserving areas for the past week, as is its core mandate. The organisation emphasised that its main purpose is to assist graduates who have outstanding fees; to help others with registration fees; and to assist high school pupils with covering books. It also assists young people with getting their learner driving licences. Thusa ngwanageno said yesterday it wished it could get a permanent donor so it could continue to implement its programmes for school registrations and outstanding fees for those without enough resources. This, it said, was as it remained limited in helping as many of those who needed it. Team leader Gnina Sithole said the organisation was however happy to be of assistance, and did not hesitate when called to assist yesterday. “Being here today to assist is a wonderful thing; we are still going to do it without doubting or hesitating. “We also have free computer labs that the youth may use to access the internet for free, to do their research, as well as apply online. “We are excited that this organisation is growing and continues to help families in need. We would like to grow and offer our services across the country one day.” Department head in the school’s foundation phase, Martha Chauke, said the group of volunteers had been invited to assist because she wanted every child to feel normal and equal to others. Chauke said the school was grateful, as this would hugely benefit it. She said the programme would extend into the community because the school had pupils from poor backgrounds. “I do have a challenge whereby we issue the books to parents to cover them, but they come back uncovered. And as a teacher you have to work with those books that are not protected and can tear at any time. “Right now this project will ensure this does not happen ... I feel good inside that there are still people out there who can lend a helping hand,” she said. Parent Sarah Ngubeni said she volunteered to cover books while waiting for stationery, and felt happy to do so for the children in her community. “Being part of this experience is great. I am enjoying it. I did not know in the morning when I came here to collect stationery that I would find people covering books and distributing them. When I did, I decided to help. “This is a safe space. I am excited to assist because this keeps me busy, I did not buy any stationery this year because I did not have money to, but I am glad the school came through for us and organised these wonderful people to help us as a community,” she said. Pretoria News