Pretoria - Driven by a love of art and the freedom it gives, Lesego Thierry Kutumela, best known as Black Money, began his hip hop music journey at a young age. He started rapping when he was 12 and is still navigating his way through the music industry. He envisions himself collaborating with the biggest artists in the hip-hop industry, such as Nasty C and Jessie Smallest. Born and raised in Soshanguve, the 19-year-old wants his music to speak to everyone, but mostly people around his age. Kutumela said he knows how much music can affect and change one’s life for the better and that is why he dedicated his songs to his peers. He highlighted the difficulties they face in life while trying to find and understand themselves. He said it was not easy to grow up as a boy child, especially in the township, because there were no men who advised and guided them. “That’s why most guys end up on the streets,” he said. “I took it on myself to be different so I can have an impact on my peers, and music keeps me sane because it’s what made me become the person I am today. “Through believing in the power of musical lyrics I managed to carry myself until I finished matric, which nowadays is a struggle, especially when you are a guy.” Kutumela added that he was now enrolling at a public college to pursue an chemical engineering career. He is doing his second year and hopes to complete his degree in record time. “I chose engineering because I’m kind of a science geek, and it’s a path for me to learn more about chemicals and nuclear power. “Even though I love music, I cannot base my life on one career. That’s why I wanted to have something tangible to fall back on if my music career fails.” Outside music, he indulges in many things that interest him, such as dancing, drawing, drama, reading and playing guitar. Kutumela described himself as someone calm who likes to help other people. He said he believed that when you give, “God will bless you with greater things and that it was the right thing to do”. The greatest challenge he has encountered on his journey has been financing the road he’s been travelling – and almost losing hope that this music journey was meant for him. “Overcoming these challenges took a lot of prayer and believing that for as long as the love I have for making music is still there, I can still make it. “I see myself advancing in my music career, and I want to see three of my songs going platinum. “I would like to advise people that dreams without action are nothing but a joke, and actions without dreams are empty … “Meaning that as long as you have dreams, you have to do everything you can in order to make them a reality,” said Kutumela. Pretoria News