Pretoria - Tshwane Metro Police Department officers impressed residents and Mayor Randall Williams with a further drug bust to the value of R95 000, as they continue to make arrests and remove dealers from the streets. This comes after Williams commended the Tshwane Metro Police Department Drug Unit for their relentless fight against drug dealers over the festive season. Following four arrests just before Christmas, the Drug Unit pounced on two more suspects in Pretoria West and Pretoria North during the festive season. The first arrest took place in Booysens when a Nigerian suspect was found in possession of R50 000 worth of nyaope and crystal meth. The second arrest in Pretoria North was of a Nigerian suspect, 44, found in possession of crystal meth and cat to the value of R45 000. “The continued efforts by the Metro Police Drug Unit have a lasting impact on the drugs distribution networks. Valuable information can be obtained from these suspects that can lead to more arrests, he said. “Therefore, I thank the Drug Unit for their efforts, especially during a time when others were celebrating the festive season, spending time with family and friends. “I call on residents to help us combat drug-related crime by reporting information to law enforcement agencies. Residents who want to assist and report drug-related crime can contact the police or Tshwane Metro Police Department.” Sunnyside and Tshwane law enforcement were trending at the weekend when reality TV channel Moja Love aired an episode exposing drug operations in Sunnyside flats. Residents celebrated when men of foreign nationality who were dealing in drugs in Sunnyside were nabbed during the operation. They expressed disgust at how the suspects were freely dealing drugs as if they were untouchable. And their “smart” tactics to not place drugs they sell in their living units were also exposed. Leo Makhathini and Ernest Mathipa said drug dealers had turned Sunnyside, Pretoria West, and Pretoria CBD into their playground, and had ruined the lives of many people. They said many students in Sunnyside have become hooked on drugs because of how easily accessible they have become. Pretoria News