Pretoria - In a similar vein to the SANDF’s strict approach to the unauthorised use of its uniforms, the SAPS has warned members of the public against the unauthorised and illegal use of police property. This applies to uniforms, equipment, emblems and any unauthorised use of police property, which according to the police is in direct contravention of the SAPS Act. Police spokesperson Brigadier Athlenda Mathe said the warning comes after the police noted a video clip circulating on social media platforms which depicted a civilian in a marked police vehicle wearing an SAPS cap. Mathe said as per the video, the civilian had committed at least three offences in terms of the SAPS Act, namely section 66(1), 68(1) and 68(3), in that he wore the emblems and official insignia of the SAPS without the relevant permission. “The man has thus created a false impression that he is lawfully associated with the police service by being in a marked police vehicle and wearing the badge and emblem of the SAPS, which is protected by law. “The police thus take this opportunity to educate members of the public that the wearing of uniform or distinctive marks of the police by a person who is not a member or who does not have permission to do so from the national commissioner is an offence,” Mathe explained. Mathe said civilians were discouraged from using or wearing police property to avoid having a criminal record. She added that the police were investigating the matter. This is not the first time someone has landed in hot water for wearing a police uniform without seeking permission from the national police commissioner. In 2013, Durban kwaito artist Mkhonzeni Langa, better known as “Professor”, came under fire after attending the 12th Metro FM Awards at Durban’s International Conference Centre clad in police uniform. According to reports following the appearance, the musician pleaded guilty to contravening the SAPS Act by wearing the uniform to the award show in February without the permission of the provincial or national commissioner. Sister paper The Star further reported that the Durban Magistrate’s Court ordered that half of the penalty would be conditionally suspended for three years. As recently as September, the Directorate for Corporate Communication within the SANDF announced it was alarmed at a social media photo of a person in full uniform advertising his birthday party at the Vaal. In the post, the person wore what appeared to be the uniform of the chief of the SANDF, along with epaulettes and medals. The defence force, following the birthday post, warned members of the public against illegally wearing any of its uniforms, including the daily camouflage, as it explained that doing so would make them guilty in terms of the Defence Act. Furthermore, they explained that if found guilty the person could face a hefty fine or possibly five years behind bars. Pretoria News