Pretoria - While many 2022 matriculants celebrated their achievements last week, Luke Andrews of Cornwall Hill College in Centurion is smiling especially bright – he has accomplished a record 15 matric distinctions. Luke has a reputation for consistently raising the bar, and his exam results are no exception for him. His record 15 matric distinctions is the latest in a string of firsts for this multitalented learner. In addition to being Dux Scholar and recipient of the Servant Leadership trophy, Luke, 18, achieved honours awards across nine disciplines spanning academic, cultural and service spheres. Luke also has the distinction of being the only pupil in the history of the school to have received the Renaissance Award twice – the highest honour a student can achieve. An avid innovator focused on helping people through technology, “clever Luke” has already made his mark on the global stage, winning in international science fairs and robotics competitions since the age of 12. Most recently he received the Yale Science and Engineering Association Award for the Most Outstanding Exhibit in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics at the 2022 XXIII Exporecerca Jove International Science Fair in Barcelona. This was for his novel optical surface tracking solution for autonomous navigation. Luke is one of only 55 high school learners worldwide to be selected to the prestigious 2022 World Science Scholars programme. He has been offered the University of Pretoria’s Vice Chancellors Award and the Allan Gray Fellowship. He is looking forward to pursuing a career in engineering and robotics. Beyond his achievements, Luke has a heart for service and played a pivotal role in leading his Cornwall Hill College class of 2022 in donating over five tons of food and clothing to Ditshego House of Laughter last year. His secret to success? “Find what you are excited and passionate about, then challenge yourself in those spaces. Believe that the impossible is possible.” Pretoria News