Mashudu Sadike and Rapula Moatshe Pretoria - One faction of the Balobedu Royal Council has started preparations for the coronation of Princess Masalanabo Modjadji as the new rain queen amid a fierce court battle with her elder brother, Prince Lekukela Modjadji, who believes he is the rightful heir to the throne. Princess Masalanabo came of age when she turned 18 at the weekend, paving the way for her to be installed as the new queen of the Balobedu nation. However, last October Prince Lekukela’s faction held a traditional coronation for him to be installed as king at Khetlhakoni village, Modjadjis- kloof in Limpopo. Prince Lekukela is arguing that they have been forced to move on after trying in vain to bring Princess Masalanabo back to the royal kraal for traditional rituals assessment. The princess had been adopted by former ANC national executive committee member Dr Mathole Motshekga. Motshekga and his wife, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga, raised Princess Masalanabo after the death of her mother, Queen Makobo Modjadji VI, in 2005. But in 2019, the Modjadji royal family accused Motshekga, who was the queen’s legal adviser at the time, of turning Princess Masalanabo against them to “hijack” the throne. He rejected the accusation as baseless. Princess Masalanabo was widely expected to be crowned queen after she turned 18. However, the other royal faction led by Ronnie Moroatshehla believes she should rather be Khadikholo (great aunt) of the Balobedu. But this week, Princes Masalanabo’s backers issued a congratulatory statement for her 18th birthday. In it, they announced that her inauguration would be held on April 11. They said they had already requested a queenship certificate from the office of President Cyril Ramaphosa. The statement read: “The Balobedu royal council is busy with the establishment of the queen’s council which will be formed by senior traditional leaders. We have already started with the preparation of the inauguration which will be held on April 11, 2023. “The request has already been sent to His Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa for issuing the queenship certificate.” Moroatshehla didn’t respond to a request for comment. The review application filed by Motshekga’s lawyer, advocate Ngoako Moropene, is expected to continue this year at the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, after a separate appeal on whether to remove Motshekga as Princess Masalanabo’s legal guardian. The main case centres on the two siblings seeking to ascend the throne, but a date for the legal battle can only be announced after the appeal process. The matter was meant to sit last year, but was postponed after Motshekga’s legal representatives Phosa and Loots attorneys, led by ANC stalwart Matthews Phosa, withdrew from the case. Subsequently, Motshekga enlisted the services of Moropene as his new legal representative. If Prince Lekukela becomes king, this will end the 200-year-old tradition of the nation being ruled by a woman. Pretoria News