Pretoria - Gauteng traffic officials have called on motorists to comply with road safety rules and regulations as the holiday season is coming to an end and as scores of holidaymakers have started to return to Gauteng, the country's economic hub, from various holiday destinations. By midday yesterday, over 1 000 vehicles per hour were travelling northbound from KwaZulu-Natal towards Gauteng, with scores more travelling from Polokwane towards the province. Gauteng Traffic police spokesperson Sello Maremane said many roads leading into the province were heavily congested since yesterday morning. He said the N1 Polokwane to Pretoria, N1 Bloemfontein to Johannesburg, N4 Rustenburg to Pretoria, N4 Emalahleni to Pretoria, N12 Emalahleni to Johannesburg, N3 Durban to Johannesburg, N12 Potchefstroom to Johannesburg and R573 Pretoria Moloto Road were expected to experience high traffic volumes as the day progressed. According to Maremane, Gauteng had recorded scores of crashes leading to fatalities since the beginning of the festive season period, with over 100 road fatalities recorded. He added that in order for road users to be safe on the roads, motorists were advised to switch on their head lamps, to enhance visibility. “Pedestrians should cross the road only when it is safe or allowed by a road traffic sign to do so; passengers using public transport should not carry large luggage with them which may obscure the driver's vision; public transport must refrain from continuously driving on yellow lanes on the freeway, as this is illegal and also endangers other road users. They are also asked to avoid over speeding and unsafe overtaking. “The Gauteng Traffic Police urge road users to comply with road safety rules and regulations to avoid unnecessary crashes resulting in fatalities. Road crashes and fatalities contribute to the alarming rate of disabilities and deaths in the province. This is largely attributed to the attitude and behaviour of road users, such as unsafe overtaking, unsafe lane changing, over speeding, pedestrian jaywalking and lack of concentration by drivers. Substance abuse and vehicle fitness have also compounded the situation on our roads,” said Maremane. He said the Gauteng Traffic Police would remain on high alert as part of the integrated law enforcement plan to deal decisively with any form of road traffic violations such as drunk driving, reckless and negligent driving, speeding, jaywalking, freight overloading and unroadworthiness. Pretoria News