Pretoria - The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has had to kiss and make up with President Cyril Ramaphosa in a bid to come out triumphant when the governing party goes to its national elective conference in five years’ time. Independent political analyst, Gakwi Mashego, said there is nothing surprising with the KZN provincial executive committee (PEC) suddenly expressing its support for Ramaphosa. This follows the KZN PEC’s 180º about-face turn to support Ramaphosa as the country prepares for the general elections next year. ANC provincial secretary Bheki Mtolo ruffled feathers when he labelled Ramaphosa an “ethical” leader who deserves the support of the nation. Addressing a PEC press conference in Durban last week, Mtolo said Ramaphosa had accounted for the ills of state-owned energy supplier, Eskom. “South Africans need liars: people who lie a lot. They like liars and clap hands for liars who say things they will never believe. The fault of Ramaphosa, he is an honest, ethical man with (a) reputation and integrity. He speaks the truth,” said Mtolo. In a follow-up impromptu press interview, Mtolo defended his stance that Ramaphosa was suddenly an honest man, saying he (Mtolo) had enough not to sing for his supper. “If you lose the conference and you (are) still held back, five years will be very difficult for you. The fact of the matter is that the ANC has got a president, Ramaphosa. “We are going to go door-to-door with pamphlets with his face, wearing T-shirts with his face. Billboards all over the country will be having his face. “How do you then not defend the face of your campaign? “Towards (the) conference, you say everything, but after (the) conference, you must come back to (your) senses and unite the movement and speak one message. I’ve got supper; the president doesn’t pay me. We were ‘moered’. We must accept defeat,” said Mtolo. Analyst, Mashego, said there was nothing surprising about the KZN PEC’s decision to throw its weight behind Ramaphosa. “There is no honesty in politics. KZN will always be a province that poses a threat to Ramaphosa, but they have learnt why they lost the last two conferences. “They realised that they don’t put their colours on the mast early. “The challenge is that they cannot fight Ramaphosa because he has the power to anoint the next ANC presidential candidate for 2027. Yet, they cannot afford to alienate Deputy President Paul Mashatile because they will need Gauteng,” he said. Mashego said KZN was also aware that they might lose the province to the IFP. “Mtolo is the engine of the KZN PEC and he knows that they are not strong in the province because the IFP has gained trust. They also know that Ramaphosa doesn’t care if the IFP takes KZN. “Therefore, they have to project a united front in order for KZN to be retained, failure of which will not give them a strong standing at the 2027 ANC conference. “They are also aware that Ramaphosa is likely to anoint Zamani Saul from the Northern Cape and Oscar Mabuyane for the next president of the ANC, Mashego said. Pretoria News