Pretoria - The City of Tshwane has been accused of ignoring advice from financial experts not to present financial statements for 2021/22 financial year to the auditor-general (AG) for auditing because they are “a mess”. This was a view of independent forensic accountant Robert Cameron-Ellis, who is also the chairperson of the City’s audit and performance committee. The committee, which was afforded a chance to pore over the financial statements before they were handed over to the AG, had described them as “rubbish”, according to Cameron-Ellis. “The audit performance committee when they were presented with those statements said they were rubbish,” he said. He said the committee advised the office of former chief financial officer Umar Banda not “to take them to the AG” but rather to wait for a month and fix them because the cash flow did not balance and budget figures were incorrect. “Those are the basics,” he said. Banda was fired by city manager Johann Mettler on December 2 last year before the expiry of his contract on December 31 for misrepresenting the financial statements of the municipality to the AG. Cameron-Ellis was responding to the AG’s adverse opinion report, which was officially presented to the council during this year’s first council sitting yesterday. The first-ever adverse audit report, which was leaked early this month, highlighted serious financial mismanagement on the part of the City. The report was tabled amid deep-seated discontent expressed by EFF councillors who held up placards with scathing messages against the DA-led multiparty coalition throughout the AG’s presentation. A senior official from the AG’s office, Xolani Zicwele, who audited the City’s financial statements, lamented how his audit team experienced difficulties during the audit due to poor record keeping by the City. The AG’s report painted a disastrous picture of the city’s financial management with irregular expenditure of R10.4 billion and fruitless and wasteful expenditure understated by R1bn. Zicwele said the financial position of the City was presented out of keeping with the Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice, the requirements of the Municipal Finance Management Act and the Division of Revenue Act. He pointed out that trade payables were not correctly reconciled to supplier statements. “As a result, not all liabilities were recorded, and in some instances trade payables recorded in the accounting records could not be substantiated. “This resulted in trade payables, and general expenses, bulk purchases, contracted services and property, plant and equipment additions being collectively understated by R4  934  429  245. In addition, I was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence for the amounts disclosed as trade payables,” he said. Part of the report flagged the city for not correctly valuing assets relating to electricity, roads, and stormwater infrastructure, as well as community in accordance with Generally Recognised Accounting Practice. “This resulted in infrastructure: assets under construction being understated, and depreciation being overstated by R2 165 599 021,” the audit report read. Zicwele said other matters raised in the report had previously been captured by the AG. For example, he cited the Rooiwal wastewater treatment works, which was operating over capacity with the necessary repairs and maintenance being delayed or not done. He also mentioned the long-standing issue of employees who were paid salaries between November 2019 and October 2020 for work not done. According to him, the situation was the result of the City not following proper recruitment processes. Pretoria News