Pretoria - The SAPS yesterday welcomed new Special Task Force members to the elite unit with a parade at the Tshwane police academy in Pretoria West. National police commissioner General Fannie Masemola gave the 11 officers their wings, including the first woman officer, 31, who underwent the 36th two-year Special Task Force selection training programme. The cohort stood on parade next to 10 Special Task Force members who were receiving their Operators Badge after undergoing a two-year probation period during which they were already serving as members of the unit. An audience of family, friends and colleagues watched from the benches as the new members, whose identities must be hidden, were reminded that the Special Task Force is a highly specialised unit responsible for responding to high-risk incidents which include hostage incidents, search and rescue missions, as well as specialised operations support. Masemola said the event marked a special achievement by the committed, disciplined, strong and energetic young people in camouflage. They are about to embark on their new careers in the police, he said. “The passing-out parade today is historic because, for the very first time, the Special Task Force passing-out parade has one female officer amongst them. The group underwent a rigorous training programme consisting of basic and some advanced training programmes, and successful completion of the training programme was not amended in any way. This means that members on parade are indeed fully trained and are 100% ready for deployment with Special Task Force operators, to serve and to protect our communities.” Addressing the new members, he said: “The intensive training that you have received, coupled with your exceptional sense of discipline and commitment, must continue to shine through your duties as you are about to embark on your new careers in the Special Task Force. Every law-abiding citizen with whom you are going to interact must see you as someone who embodies the Special Task Force values. These values are honour, discipline, professionalism and commitment for service delivery." Masemola said he hoped that the members would continue with great attitude as he was reliably informed that throughout their training they had carried themselves in a manner that embodies the discipline of the unit. This group of 11 members of the Special Task Force members who received the unit’s wings completed their parachute training and other advanced courses last year, and they will be adequately supported to complete their remaining three specialised advanced courses in this year. Addressing the audience, Masemola proudly said: “Ladies and gentlemen, out of 906 applications to join this elite unit, 589 applicants qualified for provisional selection. Ultimately, only 93 applicants reported for selection, of which only 11 successfully completed the Special Task Force basic training programme. Suffice to say, the 11 successful candidates, together with currently serving 11 STF members, have done the organisation proud in their training.” The unit has been in existence for 46 years, and over the years only 15% of applicants were successful. Pretoria News