Pretoria - Senior Tshwane ActionSA PR councillor Sizwe Skhosana has been ousted from the party following allegations that he orchestrated a move to destabilise its council caucus. This makes Skhosana, who previously served as the party’s chief whip in council, the latest party member from Tshwane to be sent packing. Last year the party dismissed Abel Tau, who was Tshwane MMC for housing and human settlements and ActionSA provincial secretary in Gauteng. Tau was removed following sex abuse allegations levelled against him. He recently launched a political party called United Africans Transformation, which aims to contest provincial and national elections in 2024. Tau also announced that he had lodged an application with the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria to challenge “premeditated” outcomes of the hearing to oust him. Yesterday, Skhosana said he was seeking legal advice with a view to challenging the manner in which his membership was terminated. He said he was not asked to appear before the disciplinary committee in order to give his side of the story. “It was a direct instruction that my membership must be terminated and that I should no longer report for duty as I didn’t represent ActionSA as a PR councillor,” he said. He said he believed he was a victim of “a political plot” hatched to get rid of him for no apparent reason. According to him, the allegations against him that he destabilised the party caucus in council were untested. He said no one had afforded him an opportunity to defend himself. The Pretoria News was told that the allegations were borne out of a caucus meeting which was also attended by his party colleagues. “I’m the only one who has received a notice that my membership has been terminated. I never went to a disciplinary hearing. It is alleged that I was destabilising the ActionSA caucus in Tshwane,” Skhosana said. He said he was told to write to the party as to why he believed his membership should not be terminated. “I’m going to challenge that. It is just purging,” he said. Regional party leader Oupa Mathibela said he had referred media questions to ActionSA national chairperson Michael Beaumont, who had yet to respond at the time of publication. Pretoria News