Pretoria - Inspired by the desire to impact people’s lives, Boikie Monareng, 42, continues to push his dream of breaking a record in cycling and running. He fell in love with athletics at the age of 14 while still in school and continues to nurture his passion to this day. Born and bred in Bela-Bela, Limpopo, he has won 3 890 medals in cycling, running and swimming. Monareng attended high school in East Lynne, Pretoria, where he developed his love for sports, and has continued embracing his talent. He said cycling and running kept him mentally fit and ready to tackle any challenges he encountered. He broke the record when he ran 1 566 km from Cape Town to Bela-Bela, and this year, he will cycle from Egypt to Cape Town. Monareng told Pretoria News he was self-motivated and always made sure to stay true to himself. “I will take a flight from South Africa to Egypt and then from Egypt I will cycle until I arrive in Cape Town. The journey will take up to five months for me to get back, and I am ready. “Every year I create a year plan for the things I want to achieve and I try by all means to achieve my goals. “This year’s goal is to cycle from Egypt (about 7 000km), and I will do that because it’s what I want to do and it makes me happy. Monareng receives most of his support from a company in Dubai which he declined to name, that helps him with resources such as running shoes, bicycles and tracksuits. “Because I love sport, I am able to teach the upcoming generation about the benefits it gives and the happiness it brings to your life. “When you engage in athletics your life becomes easy and you don’t suffer from many diseases because you eat healthy, you exercise every day and your body stays fit.” Monareng added: “If you want to achieve your goals, do not follow people; you have to stay true to yourself and do exactly what your heart desires”. His nickname, “Run Boikie Run”, was coined when he was running on a mountain and started struggling – people who were there to support him started cheering, repeatedly saying, “Run Boikie Run”. Monareng adopted it as his brand name. Monareng will host a new event, called Run Boikie Run, this year on Women’s Day (August 9), with more than 90 people already registered for the event. He said: “Women will join me in running a 10km distance in Limpopo and they are all looking forward to it. I am happy that many have joined and I would like for more people to join us on our journey in August. “Releasing stress and staying mentally fit is important in one’s life, so by this event everyone who will attend will get an opportunity to de-stress and run their problems away.” Despite the challenges he encounters on the road, such as not having proper shelter to sleep at night and sometimes running out of water, Monareng does not give up. He plans to raise funds in his tour to Egypt this year. “If you want to achieve your goals, sometimes you have to do it alone and follow your heart, accept help from others and help wherever you can,” said Monareng. Pretoria News