Pretoria - The Memorial service of murdered Tshwane University of Technology student Ntokozo Xaba was filled with tears of sorrow, regret and renewed commitments to fight the scourge of gender-based violence at all costs. The university hosted a special memorial service for third-year integrated communication student Ntokozo Manyenzi Xaba today at the Soshanguve Campus. Xaba, 21, was stabbed to death at Ekhaya Junction campus residence on February 2. SRC President Sizwe Nyambi said students like the rest of the country were concerned about the scourge of gender-based violence that seemed to be getting out of control, despite having a stellar constitution in place. Nyambi said it was for this reason why they believed that drastic steps must be taken to ensure perpetrators were dealt with harshly. He said the government, National Student Financial Aid Scheme and the university had invested in students like Xaba and yet the constitution and justice system was failing them as perpetrators seemed to be enjoying more rights than the victims. "Our justice system does not recognise women because it should be that any man who has killed does not deserve a bail hearing. The approach of our country to gender-based violence is just poor." "Those who kill don't deserve rights, they are not human, that is why I said outside court that if they release him we will kill him. The university tried to uplift him and he brought the institution into disrepute. We will never tolerate that stain as young men." Nyambi also questioned the visibility of security at the residence where Xaba was killed, adding that had there been a strong presence it would have deterred the culprit from ending the third-year student's life. "We are not going to tolerate gender-based violence anymore. If anyone slaps a woman we are going to deal with you decisively because you are branding all of us negatively." Meanwhile it was an emotional moment for Xaba's friends who could barely utter a few words without breaking into tears as they spoke of their friend. Each shared their special moments of her and how she had died after taking the difficult decision to leave a toxic relationship. Dr Marcia Socikwa challenged the university, teachers, parents, community leaders and students to reflect and find ways to unlearn a lot of negative things they had inherited from previous generations. Socikwa said if the country was to move from outdated thinking that allowed men to inflict irreversible harm it had to start by addressing the prevailing negative attitudes and look to generating knowledge about what needs to change and how it can be overcome. "I challenge you to reflect on this question as we cannot be defeated by conduct that has prevailed of late.  “Our universities should lead as places of safety and work towards and respect gender equality." The bail application for the junior Blue Bulls player Ngcebo Thusi who is accused of Xaba’s murder was postponed until next week by the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. Pretoria News