While South Africa is not endemic for cholera, the country's minister of health has called for vigilance following the confirmation of two laboratory-confirmed cases of cholera imported from Malawi. Minister of Health Dr Joe Phaahla, reported that the department was working closely with the Gauteng province, the National Institute for Communicable Diseases and World Health Organization to closely monitor the situation, since it was picked up by health authorities. According to information at their disposal, Phaahla said the two cases came from sisters who had travelled together from Johannesburg to Malawi to attend a funeral service, and returned by bus on January, 30. Both sisters had developed symptoms on their return to Johannesburg, with one of the sisters reportedly visiting a local clinic and was then admitted to hospital. Phaahla said during the case investigation and follow-up of close contacts, the sister reported that she also developed diarrhoea whilst travelling back from Malawi but as it resolved within a day she had not sought any health care. Following that another family member who was in close contact with one of the sisters was also admitted to hospital on Saturday February, 4,  with diarrhoea and dehydration, and was considered a possible case although laboratory test results are pending whilst follow-up of close contacts remains ongoing. Cholera is an acute enteric infection caused by the bacteria Vibrio cholerae, and the outbreaks usually occur in settings with inadequate sanitation and insufficient access to safe drinking water. It mainly spreads through contaminated or polluted water, with people becoming infected directly through drinking contaminated water, or indirectly through eating contaminated food. It typically causes acute watery diarrhoea and can affect people of all ages, while the infection can often be mild or without symptoms, it can sometimes be severe and life-threatening. Phaahla explained that the incubation period, from when the person ingested cholera-contaminated water or food to when they first become ill, ranging anywhere from a few hours to 5 days, usually 2 to 3 days. "Although, cholera is often predictable and preventable. People are urged to ensure proper hand-hygiene which includes thorough washing of hands with water and soap before and after using the bathroom or toilet, and preparing or eating food.  The use of only safe or disinfected water for preparing food, beverages and ice is recommended to prevent possible cholera transmission." "All people experiencing symptoms such as diarrhoea and dehydration, with or without travel history to cholera outbreak countries are urged to report at their nearest health facilities for health screening and early detection." Of the rate of cholera in the country, Phaahla said South Africa was not endemic for the disease, with the last outbreak reported in 2008 and 2009 with about 12 000 cases. He said that particular outbreak resulted from an outbreak in Zimbabwe which had led to a surge of imported cases and subsequent local transmission in the Mpumalanga and Limpopo provinces through contaminated water. Pretoria News