Pretoria - The government under the ANC still has the hallmarks of the apartheid regime, with millions still languishing in poverty and heavily reliant on grants. So said ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba yesterday during the launch of his “SA Dream of an Inclusive and Prosperous Future” outside the building where he established his Black Like Me factory 38 years ago in Ga-Rankuwa. The factory resembled a multi-racial union of business associates despite segregation laws and apartheid, Mashaba said. He expressed concern about the poor state of the economy, and the dilapidated state of the once-vibrant Ga-Rankuwa township, blaming it on the governing party. Mashaba said his dream was to ensure that all South Africans have equal access to education, economic opportunities and living in safe communities. He told hundreds of supporters he had hoped for such a dream in 1994 but that dream soon faded away, with the ANC not sharing its former president Nelson Mandela’s vision. “I was excited about the prospect of a non-racial South Africa … an explosion of black entrepreneurship … “I had a dream for a future South Africa where all South Africans would not just be equal on paper, but genuine counterparts in a dynamic, vibrant economy with prosperity shared by all. “But my optimism was short-lived. We initially made progress, but the dream of prosperity was not held by the ANC government.” Mashaba said he witnessed the ANC government implement legislation aimed at enriching a new class of politically-connected black elite, while the black majority marginalised by the apartheid government was left to struggle on their own. “Three decades later, our country remains defined by apartheid-era spatial planning, unequal access to quality education, unreliable services, dysfunctional infrastructure, and a growing gap between the rich and poor. “The Ga-Rankuwa of today is no longer the bustling area of economic opportunity it was in 1985 when we launched our business. Today it lies dormant, reflective of a country that has failed to live up to its potential under a corrupt, incompetent government.” Mashaba launched his party in August 2020, saying: “it was clear the vast majority of South Africans share our commitment to fixing our country. “South Africans are capable and resilient people. We care deeply about our country and desire to see it work for all. The vast majority want to build an inclusive society. Despite the challenges, we have collective potential. “This was the dream for our future I shared with millions of South Africans in 1994. This dream has since faded. “I stand before you to revive that dream. Imagine a South Africa defined by hope and prosperity; that inspires patriotism, that its people are proud to call home.” He said his dream would form part of his party’s campaign for the 2024 general elections. Pretoria News