Pretoria - After releasing their album titled Deep House Politics, Thabo Phallane, known as DJ Patlama, and Kagiso Mashigo, DJ Bullet, hope to change the music industry by empowering young upcoming artists and moulding them into big artists. They are passionate about changing the music industry to accommodate and promote less privileged artists who have potential. The duo saw a need to do that because many upcoming artists who do not have connections struggle to get their music to be heard and to make it in the industry. They said that without knowing anyone who is big in the industry, even when you have potential, you will not make it and your dreams could be crushed before you reach your goal. On their album they have worked with 10 amazing vocalists and a few upcoming producers. The two produced one of the stand-out singles, a prayer song, Maru, featuring Reagile Rey. Swahili Language was their first single from the album. It was well received by the masses and is being played on radio stations, including Radio 2000, Metro FM and Motsweding FM. Their music speaks to anyone who is into spiritual music because it heals, and they use soulful instruments, their lyrics always speaking about spreading love, the gospel and motivation. One of the challenges they have encountered in the music industry has been pushing their music, since they did not know anyone in the industry. “There’s a lot of corruption in radio and TV, but we were consistent in trying to push our music for a while and are now seeing the fruits of our work. “We would love to see politics of the music industry changing and accommodating every up-and-coming artist who’s trying to push their work without exploiting them. “Hence, our new album is titled Deep House Politics – we are trying to push a narrative that artists must get along, help each other and support each other. “We would also like to encourage every person who wishes to be in the industry to not give up and to keep on posting their work on social media, because they will never know who is watching and wanting to help them achieve their goals.” Pretoria News