Pretoria - The parents of schoolchildren at Laerskool Nellie Swart in Pretoria have accused leaders of their education district of racism for failing to appoint a black candidate who was successful in interviews for the position of principal. According to school governing body chairperson Thapelo Rantho, Laerskool Nellie Swart has been without a principal for nearly five years. “This has led to uncertainty and instability that have unintended consequences on the learners. The post was advertised in 2021 and the governing body selected an interview panel as per the Collective Agreement 2 of 2005 as amended and legislated.” Rantho said that last year parents held a meeting at which they shortlisted candidates and set an interview date. “Interviews were held with the three shortlisted candidates from a list that emanated from the district office. On completion of the interview process, a recommendation was made to the district for the appointment of the best candidate. No appointment was confirmed.” Rantho added that when the governing body made enquiries, it was found the file with the successful candidate’s details had not been forwarded to the provincial department. “It is extremely disturbing that a public servant finds it acceptable to lie to the parents as this can only point to sinister motives, including racism. “Our assertion is vindicated by the fact that the district wanted to influence the composition of the selection panel. This was done by declining to release a manager from the circuit who wanted to be part of the process and attempted to improperly interfere in the interview panel outcomes by casting aspersions on the recommended candidate,” he said. The governing body has condemned the actions of the district management and called for Education MEC Matome Chiloane to intervene. Provincial education spokesperson Steve Mabona said the delays related to a request for the governing body to amend the minutes of its recruitment meeting. “The file for the appointment of the principal of Laerskool Nellie Swart was sent to the office of the head of department and the file was returned to Tshwane North district on December 14, 2022 requesting the amendments to the minutes,” said Mabona. The school governing body chairperson was contacted on January 11, 2023 to arrange for a discussion on the required amendments, he said. “This process will be finalised in due course.” Pretoria News