Pretoria - The social media habit of rushing to circulate visuals and messages about public figures who have just lost their lives before their families were informed must be stopped. This message was driven by a hurting aunt of popular musician, Vusi Ma R5, who lost his life on Sunday, when he was shot and killed in an alleged assassination near the M17 in Soshanguve. Some of the family members and relatives said they were stunned by visuals circulating on Monday morning and social media hashtags about the death of Vusi Ma R5 before they were informed formally. Vusi Ma R5, real name Vusi Mosoeu, 35, lost his life on Sunday night when he was at the M17 popular spot, Legentsheng. But his relatives did not appreciate learning about his passing from social media posts. The family stated that the country hurt them with their posts on social media. They pleaded with the country that this must stop and never happen again to another family. "South Africa, we are hurting deeply because of social media. We are still at home and we have not arrived at the scene where our child died but you guys have already published that he should rest in peace while the family does not even know. You guys have already taken things and published them on social media. "We are begging you social media users. Make use of your social media accounts in the most appropriate ways. You have hurt us and we are pleading with you for us be the last ones you hurt in this way. Do not hurt other people out there. "Know that when a person (deceased) is lying there on the ground, that person has family and relatives and those people should be the ones announcing his passing, not you. We are begging you social media users, please respect the families when it comes to those close to them," said his aunt Esther Mnisi. Many people have in the past called for social media users to be responsible when it comes to such sensitive matters. The same thing was done when another Tshwane artist, DJ Sumbody, was shot and killed in Midrand late last year. Social media was already flooded with visuals of his dead body before all members of his family were informed. Similarly, this has been the case with many other shootings in Tshwane. As soon as a person was assassinated, people start sharing the gruesome visuals of the deceased. In some cases people even share voice notes to name the person and start speculating about who could have killed them and why. The police have always condemned this behaviour, stopping many spectators from taking images and videos of crime scenes where dead bodies were left visible to the public.  Media personnel always have to to produce media cards before they were permitted to take visuals as part of their job. Pretoria News