Pretoria - Members of the Cable Theft Unit within the Tshwane Metro Police Department arrested a suspect at a scrapyard dealer who attempted to bribe them after they discovered suspected stolen cable in Bronkhorstspruit. The suspect was caught during patrols in the area by metro police members after the unit noticed a property that was being used as a scrap metal dealer.  “When they entered to inspect the premises, they found copper hidden in bags that had clearly been extracted from cables. “The owner was unable to provide sufficient proof of ownership, and he also tried to convince officers that he was an Angolan citizen, but it was later established that he was a 45-year-old South African citizen,” said MMC for Community Safety, Grandi Theunissen. "During the continuation of the search, two small bags with suspected drugs were also found on the premises. Considerable amounts of alcohol were also found for which no liquor licence could be produced. When the arrest was effected, the suspect attempted to bribe the officers with R2 660.“ Charges of possession of suspected drugs, selling liquor without a liquor licence, and bribery were added to the possession of suspected stolen copper on the sheet. "The Cable Theft Unit is a small but dedicated unit that works around the clock to fight the scourge of cable theft. We are working continuously to strengthen their hands and to improve ground-level cooperation with communities in Tshwane, private security companies and the South African Police Service," said. He said the continued efforts by the unit, despite working with limited resources to protect critical infrastructure, was effective and taking criminals that sabotage the City's service delivery off the streets. Following this arrest, the Tactical Unit, on patrol, responded to information about a drug dealer in the Atteridgeville area, a woman who confessed to possession of and dealing in drugs. Various bags of nyaope and crystal meth were confiscated, and the two suspects were detained at Atteridgeville police station. During patrols of cable theft hotspot areas around Hercules, the Cable Theft Unit noticed two suspects digging in a notorious trench that is often targeted. When they approached the suspects, one of them fled the scene immediately, leaving his elderly partner behind to be arrested. The suspect, a 62-year-old South African citizen, was charged with damaging and tampering with essential infrastructure and the possession of suspected stolen copper, and he was detained at Hercules police station. The Cable Theft Unit also responded to a complaint of cable theft in the Wierdabrug area, and upon arrival, they discovered four suspects actively digging in a trench. The suspects fled, and the members gave chase and managed to arrest three suspects. "During the chase, one of the suspects was shot, and one of the unit’s members sustained injuries. Both were taken to hospital for treatment. The remaining two suspects were detained at Wierdabrug police station and charged with common robbery and damaging and tampering with essential infrastructure. "I want to commend both units for their outstanding work, and I wish the injured member a speedy recovery." Pretoria News