Pretoria - Tourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu’s office has shot down criticism levelled against SA Tourism acting chief executive Themba Khumalo over his links to controversial evangelist pastor Alph Lukau. Khumalo was thrust into the national spotlight last week when he called an urgent press conference to allay fears concerning media reports that SA Tourism was on the verge of inking a R1 billion sponsorship deal with English Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur. The potential deal embroiled Sisulu in the scandal, with media claims – later refuted – that she was actively involved in ensuring the contract was signed off before her speculated removal from her portfolio when President Cyril Ramaphosa reshuffled his Cabinet. Sisulu stated, through her office, that the reports were “fallacious” and “intended at tarnishing her image for political reasons”. SA Tourism confirmed the deal but defended the marketing agency’s mandate to promote tourism to international tourists who take their money to other countries due to lack of exposure to what South Africa has to offer. Khumalo could neither deny nor confirm the amount that sent social media into a tailspin, with many suggesting that South Africa had too many problems to be considering “sponsoring a mere soccer jersey” at such a hefty fee. The press conference resulted in social media users digging into Khumalo’s background, to justify their views that he was not the right person to be dishing out taxpayers’ money to rich soccer clubs. Khumalo’s involvement with Lukau’s Alleluia International Ministries was enough to foster more contention with his role at a government agency, especially given that the church has a tourism focus since it attracts international guests who visit for prayers and prophecies weekly. “Going to be very interesting to hear how he jumped from being a bishop in a church to CEO of Tourism SA,” wrote Twitter user Danie van der Merwe. “Hmmmm Pastor TK neh. If you dig deep …when he prays you will think the devil has been arrested,” @nkele55 wrote. In February 2019, Lukau became the subject of public scrutiny after appearing in a video where he prayed over a man purported to be dead. The man, named Briton Elliot, was seen lying in a coffin, wearing a white suit. To loud celebrations of congregants at the service, Lukau instructed the corpse to rise, which happened in full view of cameras. But discrepancies were later noted, with critics labelling the entire affair a “fake” and “rehearsed miracle”. Social media users have now turned their focus on Khumalo, who has appeared in many Alleluia Ministries services dressed as one of the highly esteemed leaders who occupy the front seats of the church. It is understood that Khumalo has since received a blessing from Lukau for him to head his own church as Bishop Themba Khumalo. The association with the Lukau controversy has not been well-received, but Sisulu’s office believes it is unfair for Khumalo to be crucified for his religious beliefs. “The minister has nothing to do with the religious beliefs and cultures of individuals. Our Constitution provides for freedom of religion and belief and prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion” Sisulu’s spokesperson Steve Motale said yesterday. SA Tourism spokesperson Thandiwe Mathibela did not respond to questions yesterday, which also requested Khumalo comment on his association with Lukau. By deadline, Alleluia Ministries had not responded to media questions either. Pretoria News