Pretoria - The South African Medical Association has laid charges against Pretoria general practitioner Dr Petrus Bekker with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) after he called his colleagues murderers for administering Covid-19 vaccines. Bekker, an author and medical practitioner who operates from Wesmed Medical Centre in Pretoria North, claimed during a radio interview that people were left with health problems after vaccinations. He said he took vaccine safety very seriously and added there had been reports of individuals suffering debilitating illnesses after vaccinating for Covid-19. These, according to the medic, included heart conditions, cerebral palsy and muscular dystrophy, resulting in death for those individuals. He then said those doctors who had given patients the vaccine were responsible for the deaths, calling them murderers. Yesterday, the South African Medical Association confirmed that it had laid a complaint with the regulator. The charge was laid on January 17 and will seek to determine whether his conduct amounted to unprofessional behaviour; if it does, the association wants the regulator to appropriately penalise him according to Section 42 of the Health Professions Act. Claiming his statements were backed by scientific evidence, Bekker said the vaccines were not safe for humans. He said they were not good for people, as they had long-term effects. He added that they were used for sick horses, and that Covid-19 was a man-made mutation of a virus that existed for millions of years. There have been many controversies and myths regarding Covid-19 vaccines, such as how many who contracted it would get very sick or die, and how one could stay safe by avoiding Chinese and Italian people. Yesterday, SA Medical Association chief executive Dr Vusumuzi Nhlapho said they had not yet received a response from the HPCSA on their complaint. “It is now up to them to follow through with the complaints as mandated,” he said. The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention admitted that they were aware of individuals suffering illnesses following vaccination. Deputy director Tom Shimabukuro said they were aware of the claims and would continue to monitor the safety of the vaccines. “Federal health officials have previously downplayed the potential adverse reactions people may have to Covid-19 vaccinations as part of the effort to get as many people as possible to take the shots. “The clinical presentation of people suffering these health problems is variable and no specific medical causes for the symptoms have been found. We understand that illness is disruptive and stressful, especially under those circumstances. “We acknowledge that the health problems have substantially impacted the quality of life for people and it also affected those around them,” he said. Pretoria News