Pretoria - Following the outpouring of rage after news of the killing of a third-year Tshwane University of Technology female student Ntokozo Xaba, the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation has established a multi-stakeholder partnership to galvanise men in the fight against gender-based violence (GBV) within the post-schooling sector. Minister Blade Nzimande made the announcement as he passed on his condolences to the university and the family of 21-year-old Xaba, who was found stabbed to death at the university's campus residence last week Thursday. Xaba, who was studying for a National Diploma in Integrated Communication, had according to reports last been spotted drinking with friends, including her ex-boyfriend on Wednesday. The friends alleged that they left the pair together that night. Bulls Rugby player Ngcebo Thusi has since appeared briefly in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court earlier today after his arrest in connection with the murder of Xaba. The National Prosecuting Authority said Thusi, who represented the Blue Bulls in the 2022 country districts, was facing charges of murder and defeating the ends of justice. Nzimande applauded law enforcement agencies for the swift response in apprehending and taking in a suspect for questioning regarding Xaba's untimely death. He added that he had also instructed higher health to join hands with the university's wellness team to provide the necessary psycho-social support to the family. "This issue is not only devastating for survivors of violence and their families but also entails significant social and economic costs and has dire implications for the post-school education and training sector." "As part of dealing with gender-based violence in our institutions, I will be launching the Transforming MENtalities Initiative, which will be a multi-stakeholder partnership within the post-schooling education and training sector, with a particular focus on mobilising men in our sector to be part of championing a world free of gender biases, stereotypes, violence and discrimination," Nzimande said. The minister urged institutions working alongside higher health, to continue working collectively in implementing programmes towards addressing the challenges of sexual and gender-based violence within the system, especially by ensuring the provision of safe workplaces, learning spaces and residences for all staff and students. Furthermore Nzimande urged institutions to work collaboratively with the Technical Task Team being chaired by Unisa Principal and Vice-Chancellor Professor Puleng LenkaBula which has been tasked with effectively implementing the department's Gender Policy Framework. The case looking into the death of Xaba will return to the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court on February 13. In the meantime, the state is to confirm the address and profile of Thusi ahead of the expected bail proceedings. Pretoria News