Pretoria - People of all ages and from all walks of life gathered in Mabopane to pay their last respects to the King of Bacardi music, Vusi Ma R5, who was gunned down in the early hours of the morning last Monday. The music icon, real name Itumeleng Mosoeu, took the country by storm with songs like Tse Nnyane and Thaba (Ke Chanchitse). He was shot and killed in a suspected assassination in Soshanguve just three months after another Pretoria musician, amapiano star and businessman DJ Sumbody, died in a hail of bullets in November. Speakers at Vusi Ma R5’s funeral called on criminals to stop the violent killings. The funeral arguably was among the most well-attended of a public figure. Roads were blocked way before the cortège arrived. A guard of honour was formed along both sides of his home street in Boekenhout, spilling on to other streets, as the overwhelming turnout grew, prompting traffic controllers to step in. Even those who were not party to the funeral proceedings were forced to stop and watch as the convoy moved along the streets. They waved at the hearse and vehicles ferrying his family, relatives and members of his crew, known as Team R5. His fans began playing music in their cars, with girls twerking – another big part of Vusi Ma R5’s stage act. Mourners argued that while he was no typical musician featured on TV daily, Vusi Ma R5 was likely the most booked musician in the country. Some said this was testament that when a person became big and did not leave his people behind, their legacy grew bigger within their community. They told stories about how he served the community. When people could not afford funerals he was there and when indigent families had no food, they collected groceries from Vusi Ma R5, they said. Public figures including comedian Schoolboy Ntuli and TikTok sensation Chairman said the killers should be ashamed of themselves because they killed a good man who grew up poor and changed his life and that of many people who made a living through him. Vusi Ma R5’s 12-year-old daughter Rapelang brought people to tears as she tried to contain her emotions while wishing her father farewell. She said: “You who killed him have hurt us. I wonder how you feel spending blood money if they paid you.” His wife, Sana Mosoeu, was too emotional to speak. She broke down and cried as they carried her husband’s coffin to the grave. Friend and colleague, Ding Dong, encouraged her to be strong and asked the late musician to fight for his family when he got to heaven. He told the widow that her husband loved her very much and wanted to build her a big house since he had already bought her a Porsche. The funeral was followed by massive after-tears celebrations, which included the spinning of cars and chill-sessions across clubs and lounges in Mabopane, Soshanguve and Winterveldt. His childhood friends from Marula Primary School and Mabopane High School also got together to celebrate his life. Ward councillor Khotso Tsela said he was heart-broken and at a loss. He said Vusi Ma R5 was a man of the people. He was buried at Odi Cemetery. Pretoria News